---
xip: 2
title: SHARDS Dividend Yielding Token Standard 
status: Draft
type: Standard Track
category: XRC
author: R. Quincy Jones | Github:@CoinClubQuincy | quincy@xdc.org 
created: 2022-9-25
---  

## What is a SHARD?

The SHARDS are built for Apps on the XDC Network that would like an autonomous means of distribution of Fees paid to the contract in the form of dividends to the token holders LIVE as the DApp gains usage.`. 

## Abstract
The SHARD token is a decentralized share of ownership over a DApp and the profits generated by the DApp. The SHARD tokens are NFTs that can also be used within the DApp for governance and control over functions in the DApp. 
SHARDs act as a new means for Apps,Startups,and Businesses to have an automated means to distribute XDC generated by their applications on the XDC Network.
## Motivation
This standard allows for a new Market of autonomous Apps on XDC where applications can act entirely autonomous as the grow and allow for interested parties be able to own the DApps.  currently Apps either direct funds to a founder contract or have a currency created with its own fees and incentives. The Idea with shards is a developer can create the app they want, accept fees and direct the fees to the shards while being able to sell parts of their app as it grows to help fund the further developements of additional contracts that contribute to the original shards or sell applications they have that get steady use. Globally developers can create DApps and sell them as they grow as well as redeem the yields generated by the contract. 

## Specification

**Token Variables**
MUST - Developers must Name the DApp accordingly and define how many shards are created 
 
- name: Name is required for naming DApp
- symbol: Symbol is a short hand 3-5 character code to reference DApp Nnme.
- totalSupply: total supply MAX is 1000 tokens
````
string  public name;    
string  public symbol;    
uint  public totalSupply;
````


**View_Account** 
OPTIONAL - view tokens yield in contract

    function View_Account(uint _token)public  view  returns(uint);

**Redeem**
In order to again dividends user MUST select the Redeem function 

    function Redeem()public  returns(bool);



****All other function of inherited from the XRC1155 contract standard***



## Rationale
this contract act as a amendment to the XRC1155 token standard to create a new type of token that acts as ownerships of different DApps this new type of token allows for DApps to be own and traded to allow for developers to sell their blockchain products as the perform no mater the function of how big or small they are.

## Backwards Compatibility
All XIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The XIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. XIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.


## Reference Implementation
Github:https://github.com/CoinClubQuincy/XRC-SHARDS

All function within contract can use this line of code at the bottom of their function to forward funds to the **receive()** function to allocate funds.
````solidity
    address(this).call{value: msg.value};
````
This contract bellow is an example of a lemonade stand contract that receives 100XDC for a glass of lemonade and divides those funds amongst 10 token holders

````solidity
contract lemonadeStand is XRC100{
	constructor(string  memory _name,string  memory _symbol,uint _totalSupply) XRC100(_name,_symbol,_totalSupply){}

	function GlassOfLemonade()  public  payable  returns(bool){
		require(msg.value ==  100000000000000000000,"need more funds");

		//this call can be used in all functions that recive fees
		address(this).call{value:  msg.value};  //use this to forward all funds to the receive function
		return  true;
	}
}
````
## Security Considerations
**WARNING: Lost SHARDS will result in the portion of funds allocated to the token to also be lost**

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
